---
layout: post
title:  "Optimism has any benefits?"
date:   2023-03-22 01:00:00
categories: self-reflection
---


I define myself mostly optimist if I am not acting naturally.
This post is a reminder to myself to keep the balance of optimism/pessimism.

Being an optimist was something that some people aspired to be.
It is regarded as a "good" quality to possess.
Optimism is the belief that things will turn out well in the end, even if there are setbacks.
Having this mindset can help people in a variety of ways, 
including building strong connections and assisting people in staying strong during difficult times.
Let us not forget that optimism is not always the solution to all of our problems because being 
overly optimistic can lead to unrealistic expectations and poor decisions. 
In some cases, it can even be harmful to ourselves or others. 
Furthermore, if we rely too heavily on optimism, we may avoid dealing with harsh realities or challenges. 
So, it's essential to strike a balance between being optimistic and facing things head-on. 
Yes it's the **balance** again pffff.

Being an optimist has a lot of potential benefits for me. 
It is the capability of encouraging resilience in the face of difficult situations. 
According to studies, people with a positive view of the world are better able to cope with stress and recover 
from setbacks than those with a pessimistic view (Seligman, 1991). Positive thinking has also been 
linked to improved physical health outcomes, such as improved immune function and lower rates of 
cardiovascular disease (Segerstrom & Sephton, 2010). So yeah I can say I am at least more resillient to 
diffucult situations. But there are some important drawbacks. 
For example, individuals who are overly optimistic may have unrealistic **expectations** about the future, 
leading them to take **unnecessary risks** or make **poor decisions**.

